welcome my name is lisa and now i'm
going to talk about
the talented mr ripley
while working at a fancy party as a
pianist
tom ripley matt damon is approached by
shipping magnate herbert greenleaf
who believes that ripley attended
princeton with his son
dickie jude law because ripley is
wearing a borrowed princeton jacket
greenleaf gives him a tour of his
shipyard and recruits ripley to travel
to italy to persuade dickie to return
home
offering him a 1000 bonus and all
expenses paid
after a first-class ocean liner voyage
ripley pretends to be dicky in the
italian ship terminal and strikes
up a friendship with an american
socialite meredith logue
kate blanchett in the fictional seaside
village of mongebello
ripley befriends sticky and his
girlfriend marge sherwood gwyneth
paltrow
claiming to be his former princeton
classmate
ripley enjoys dicky's extravagant
lifestyle
and becomes obsessed with dickie himself
eventually dickie tires of him and
starts spending time with his patrician
socialite friend freddie miles phillip
seymour hoffman
who treats ripley with contempt the
night they return from rome
dickie catches ripley dressed in his
clothes and dancing in front of a mirror
after dickies father cuts off ripley's
travel funds
dickey cancels a trip to venice and
tells ripley they should part ways
but offers to take him on a final trip
to san remo
they argue on a small boat and dickie
says he has had enough of ripley and is
going to marry marge
ripley insinuates that dickie is
rejecting him because he is afraid of
the feelings they have developed for
each other
they struggle and ripley kills dickie
with an oar
he takes dickie's belongings and
scuttles the boat
realizing that people mistake him for
dickie ripley decides to assume his
identity
he forges a letter to marge convincing
her that dickie has left her to live in
rome
he creates the illusion that dickie is
still alive by checking into one hotel
as dicky and another as himself
creating an exchange of communications
between the two
through forgery he is able to draw on
dickies allowance
which allows him to live lavishly he
runs into meredith
who still knows him as dicky in the
gucci shop in rome
his ruse is threatened when marge
arrives in rome and tom
runs into her at the opera he is
attending with meredith and her family
he rushes meredith out on a pretext then
breaks it off with her to prevent
himself from being exposed
freddie shows up at ripley's apartment
looking for dickie
when the landlady addresses ripley as
dicky freddy realizes the fraud
ripley bludgeons him to death and
disposes of the body
ripley is forced to create stories to
avoid the police and marge
who are looking for dickie realizing
that the police suspect dickie of
murdering freddy
ripley forges a suicide note with dickie
claiming responsibility for freddie's
death
ripley then travels to venice where he
re-encounters marge's friend
peter smith kingsley first meeting him
at the roman opera house
and they become very close peter acts as
a translator for a meeting with the
police and ripley panics when he hears
that the roman police are coming because
inspector roverini knew him as dickie
he is relieved to see that it is a
different officer who did not know him
as dickie
dickey's father travels to italy to meet
with the police
bringing along a private detective alvin
macarin
ripley prepares to kill marge when she
discovers dickies rings in his
possession and begins to deduce what has
been going on
but peter interrupts them greenleaf
dismisses
marge's suspicions and macaron reveals
to ripley that the police are convinced
that dicky
who had a history of violence murdered
freddie before killing himself
macaron further indicates that out of
appreciation for ripley's loyalty to
dickie
and to assure ripley's silence greenleaf
intends to bequeath a portion of dickies
trust fund to him
free and clear of his crimes ripley
boards a ship to greece with peter
it is implied that they are now lovers
ripley is surprised to encounter
meredith
who knows him as dicky and also knows
peter socially
he kisses her and promises to talk later
in his cabin peter tells ripley he saw
him kiss meredith and ripley makes weak
excuses
ripley realizes that he has to kill
peter as meredith is traveling with her
family and would be missed
ripley admits that he lied about who he
is and laments that he will always be
alone because of what he has done
sobbing he strangles peter and returns
to his cabin
alone thank you all for watching
don't forget to subscribe and hit the
bell notification for more of these
videos
[Music]